Are you not already willing and ready to serve, cooperate, and refresh?
Of course you are.
So I have a talk on this now.
Well, for one thing, we're not going to see you for a while.
But more importantly, that willingness you have today to serve, cooperate, and refresh
is going to be put to the test.
But with sudden changes or discouragement, undesirable circumstances, unexpected challenges
and problems, lack of support or recognition, any of the above, all of the above, and
that's exactly what happened to an individual in the first century in Corinth.
The Apostle Paul had founded the congregation in Corinth, and he mentions this individual.
In his letter, in 1 Corinthians 116, who is it?
1 Corinthians 116, yes, I also baptize the household of Steffanus.
Who Steffanus?
Why does Paul mention him?
Steffanus in his household, that's his family, it could also include slaves, employees,
they all take the truth.
He did the beginning when Paul is there founding the congregation.
Paul stays in Corinth for about a year and a half to stabilize the congregation.
So Steffanus learns first hand from Paul.
He receives not five months of training, but some 18 months.
Learning who Jesus Christ was, how to be Christ-like as he looked at the Apostle Paul's example,
what fine training.
But then things changed.
Paul went on to Ephesus, and in a very short time, serious problems developed in Corinth,
a shocking case of immorality being tolerated in the congregation for some time.
Brothers causing divisions, saying, I belong to Paul, will I to a Paulos?
But for me, it's Peter, and you had brothers taking brothers to court over personal matters.
And many other serious problems developing, how Steffanus doing, is he bearing up?
Is he using the training he got from Paul to handle these situations?
Or did he become part of the problem, saying, will I belong to Paul?
He baptized me.
Well, we find out.
As five years after the congregation was formed, that's right, five years after Steffanus
was baptized, here he is with two other brothers, going to Ephesus to meet Paul and report
what's happening in Corinth.
What do we see in this Christian?
Well, Paul tells us.
Now go to chapter 16, 1 Corinthians 16, verse 15, now I urge you, brothers, you know
that the household of Steffanus is the first fruits of Ekea?
Yes, we know that.
He baptized him in his household early on, but here it is.
And they devoted themselves to ministering to the Holy Ones.
They devoted themselves to ministering to the Holy Ones.
What does that mean?
The minister means one who does not let up in humbly serving others, does not let up that
indicates resistance, challenge, problems, but he does not let up in serving others.
And who is he serving?
The Holy Ones.
This is not an elite group of prominent people.
All the brothers and sisters were anointed with Holy Spirit, so they were all Holy Ones,
like Steffanus, but these were the same ones taking each other to court.
They had a fleshly view of things, not a spiritual view, and they were tolerating immorality
in the congregation, yet Steffanus is determined to humbly serve all of his brothers and sisters.
Let's read verse 16.
May you also keep submitting yourselves to people like that, like who, like Steffanus,
and to all those cooperating and working hard.
Paul is urging the congregation to submit to Steffanus.
Why does he have to urge them?
Could it be Steffanus was not getting the support or the recognition that he needed, regardless?
Steffanus is determined to minister to his brothers.
Paul says that Steffanus also cooperated.
How's that?
Remember, Steffanus didn't come alone to see Paul.
The next verse tells you that there's two others that came with him.
And in chapter 7, Paul writes that he is answering questions that the brothers wrote to him.
So there's a letter.
Steffanus and his friends may have brought that letter to Paul.
So what do we see here in Steffanus?
He's not a maverick, a lone wolf out on a personal campaign.
He's cooperating with the brothers.
Brothers that up until now were mishandling serious issues in the congregation.
In addition to a letter, Steffanus is there in person to give accurate details and more
information to Paul.
So Paul has the whole story about what's going on in Corinth.
That is, Steffanus was cooperating with theocratic arrangements, such as they were.
Such as they were.
How do you know that Steffanus didn't just go to meet Paul to complain and criticize
how everything's being mishandled?
You know, there's always something that like to complain and criticize, and they stand
and watch and see what happens.
Was that Steffanus?
Was his report accurate to Paul or was he just giving his side of the story to gain Paul's
favor?
Well, Paul tells us in the next two verses, 17 and 18.
But I rejoice over the presence of Steffanus and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they
have made up for you're not being here, for they have refreshed my spirit and yours,
therefore give recognition to men of that sort.
So what do you think?
If Steffanus was biased and critical, do you think Paul would have found him refreshing?
You know Paul's character.
He would have counseled him, no.
He counseled Peter some years earlier and Antioch, did he not?
No.
Steffanus was truly refreshing.
His report likely served to dispel at least some of Paul's concerns about Corinth.
Imagine being able to be refreshing to the apostle Paul.
But Paul says, he refreshed my spirit and yours, that's the congregation.
How so?
Well first Steffanus takes action, doesn't he?
He doesn't just stand by and complain.
But he doesn't try to resolve things on his own.
He cooperates with the brothers.
He comes with them and he provides information to Paul.
And he along with others explains the situation to Paul and then brings the answers back with
him to assist the congregation.
How refreshing to the congregation to have one like Steffanus.
Because Steffanus kept ministering to cooperating with and refreshing others, he was a mature
stabilizing influence on the congregation.
He remembered Jesus Christ is the head of the congregation.
And he humbly followed theocratic direction.
So under inspiration, the apostle Paul could write a powerful, accurate letter so on point
that we're still benefiting from his counsel today.
Steffanus and his friends likely had just such a letter in his hand as he went back to
the congregation and then humbly helped the brothers to apply the counsel.
Within a few months, things had really improved in court.
There are only four verses to describe Steffanus.
If only four verses were allotted to describe you in five years from now, what would you
like them to say?
Steffanus is a fine example to imitate.
Do not let up in serving your brothers, all your brothers.
Look for the quiet ones, the downtrodden, cooperate with theocratic arrangements such as they
are.
Recognize those that went ahead of you and also working hard.
Publishers, pioneers, missionaries, beth lights, the ones who fought the earlier battles
of faith and brought theocracy to the level that it is now.
Be refreshing.
Even in the face of serious problems, tell the facts as they are.
Don't embellish or hide pertinent information just to look good.
lish the apostle Paul's in the area.
But don't forget those who are toiling and loaded down.
What tremendous good you will accomplish in your assignment when, despite change, challenges,
problems, you remain a Steffanus as you serve, cooperate and refresh.